---
Layout:

Title: "To-do-App"

Date: "2021-03-26"

Categories:
---

# INTRODUCTION

Today we were given another task to create a Todo App . Using 'document.getElementbyID and the innerHTML'.

# BODY

Firstly I had to go and educate myself about the HTML method we were instructed to use for the App .After understansding what they both do I started working on my app. The knowledge and the information I had really made it easier to do the app. Here is some of the information I got it is not much though...
The getElementById() method returns the element that has the ID attribute with the specified value. This method is one of the most common methods in the HTML DOM, and is used almost every time you want to manipulate, or get info from, an element on your document.
e.g document.getElementById("demo");

The innerHTML property sets or returns the HTML content (inner HTML) of an element.
e.g document.getElementById("demo").innerHTML = "Paragraph changed!";

# CONCLUSION

Understanding is key. When dealing with a problem it is important to understand what does it require of you and which tools do you need need to tackle it, your approach to a problem is very important. So for me doing a research or evaluation was the first step I needed to apply because I always come across problems when given a task, this specific one was a lot easier to handle because I had prior knowledge on how to create a to do App. I was also watching some tutorials and that made me see the light.
One thing I would also like to say added to my enthusiasm today is Moral's speech , he spoke so well and many of the words he spoke hit a nerve and motivated me not to sleep on my self because this is anyone's game and hard work pays.
