---
Layout:

Title: "Daily Summary"

Date: "2021-11-12"

Categories:
---

# INTRODUCTION

In this blogpost I will write all my progress from the beginning of October. The were a lot of things we had to do for The Coding Ground website,such as implementing changes. We had to add a Home page , make a navigation bar , and update mentors page and also add a Students page to the existing website. We were briefed that the navigation should be able to move through different pages , so it should be a Menu. We were also briefed to add a Contacts page which will make it easy for people to engage with us and for sponsors to communicate with us.


# BODY

I was assigned to re-edidting the mentors section which was not a good challenge and it came as a huge task and it was such a huge responsibility. I took it day by day and step-by-step and tried not to be hard on myself. I didn't have to start from afresh but I only had to change a few things that have to do with styling,CG. I changed the mentors section so that each person has a card format but when we were reviewing it Tanille told me that she doesn't prefer it that way and I should re-style it similar to how it looked before but change things like positioning, size and fonts. I went back to do that and I must say it was a lot easier the second time I was doing it because I only had to discard the styling I didn't need and keep the one I needed. I also got a great deal of help and support from my other group members. I was finally done and we loved it as a group and then we started working on the responsiveness of the website but we had to pause because we were told to wait for the final word and the green flag so that we can continue and get the final piece dusted.  

# CONCLUSION
I have completed my task and I have been busy with the challenges on Free code camp which I am finding fun and educative so much. WIth the help of the katas Moral has been giving us I have improved a lot and with more practice I do think I can do more.
