---
Layout:

Title: "Combinations of methods"

Date: "2021-05-19"

Categories:
---


# INTRODUCTION
Even though it is a friday today and usually I write a summary of my week well this day will be different because I will write about Pig Latin which is something I learnt today on FreeCodeCamp.


# BODY

WHAT IS A PIG LATIN?
It is a way of altering words in English,usually by adding a fabricated suffix or by moving the initial consonant or consonant cluster of a word to the end of the word and adding a vocalic syllable to create such a suffix.

What are the rules?
- If a word begins with a consonant, take the first consonant or consonant cluster, move it to the end of the word, and add ay to it.

- If a word begins with a vowel, just add way at the end.

For instance you will be given an exercise to Translate the provided string to Pig Latin. Input strings are guaranteed to be English words in all lowercase.
here are guidelines...
1)You will probably want to use regular expressions. This will allow you to convert the words easily.

2)If the first character is a vowel, then take that whole word and add ‘way’ at the end. Otherwise comes the tricky part, take the consonant(s) before the first vowel and move it to the end and add ‘ay’. This might be confusing but, it is not just the first consonant but all of them before the first vowel.

3)You will need to use everything you know about string manipulation to get the last part right. However, it can be done with substr alone. <br>
Solution
function translatePigLatin(str) {
  if (str.match(/^[aeiou]/)) return str + "way";

  const consonantCluster = str.match(/^[^aeiou]+/)[0];
  return str.substring(consonantCluster.length) + consonantCluster + "ay";
}
# CONCLUSION
During my weekend I will be watching more vidoes to extend my knowledge and problably try to solve any test on FreeCodeCamp.