Layout:

Title: "Object orianted programming"

Date: 2021-03-23

## Categories:

# INTRODUCTION

Object Oriented programming or OOP is a programming paradigm that relies on the concept of classes and objects. It is used to structure a software program into simple, reusable pieces of code blueprints (usually called classes), which are used to create individual instances of objects.

# BODY

Benefits of OOP
1-OOP models complex things as reproducible, simple structures
2-Reusable, OOP objects can be used across programs
3-Allows for class-specific behavior through polymorphism
4-Easier to debug, classes often contain all applicable information to them
5-Secure, protects information through encapsulation

Building blocks of OOP
-Classes
-Objects
-Methods
-Attributes

Building blocks explained
CLASSES
In a nutshell, classes are essentially user defined data types. Classes are where we create a blueprint for the structure of methods and attributes. Individual objects are instantiated, or created from this blueprint.

OBJECTS
Of course OOP includes objects! Objects are instances of classes created with specific data, for example in the code snippet below Rufus is an instance of the Dog class.

ATTRIBUTES
Attributes are the information that is stored. Attributes are defined in the Class template. When objects are instantiated individual objects contain data stored in the Attributes field.

The state of an object is defined by the data in the object’s attributes fields. For example, a puppy and a dog might be treated differently at pet camp. The birthday could define the state of an object, and allow the software to handle dogs of different ages differently.

METHODS
Methods represent behaviors. Methods perform actions; methods might return information about an object, or update an object’s data. The method’s code is defined in the class definition.

When individual objects are instantiated, these objects can call the methods defined in the class. In the code snippet below, the bark method is defined in Dog class, and the bark() method is called on the Rufus object.

# CONCLUSION

There is more to Object orianted programming , but that is how far and how much I know about it .
