---
Layout:

Title: "Codewars"

Date: "2021-03-24"

Categories:
---

# INTRODUCTION

Today I created my Codewars account. The initiation challenge was not so challenging because the solution to it required 'return' for it to pass. Setting the acoount was not a problem because you just have to link your Github account to your Codewars account and then the same username you are using for your Github is the same username you will use for the new account.

# BODY

Codewars is an educational community for computer programming. On the platform, software developers train on programming challenges known as kata. These discrete programming exercises train a range of skills in a variety of programming languages, and are completed within an online integrated development environment. Codewars is good for learning porogramming language. COdewars is good for beginners because the problems are small and straight forward. The other thing is that, it is a good tool for software engineers of all levels to use to advance their language skills, interact with other software engineers, and discuss solutions. As beginner engineers we obviously need some experience in the language in order to join the program. The language I am using to deal with or per se the only language I am dealing with on kata is Javascript and the difficulty level I have began with is 8kyu. So far passing the challenges is hard because the level of difficulty from the coding i am doing on FreeCodeCamp is easier than the Codewars .

# CONCLUSION

Solving the kata challenges is quite a hustle as today was my first day using Codewars. I understand that the challenges given to us are modified and more difficult than the FREECODECAMP challenges.
