---
Layout:

Title: "Daily Summary"

Date: "2022-02-22"

Categories:
---

# INTRODUCTION

I am going to write about SQL.<br> This is something we were told to research and gather as enough information as we could.<br>

# BODY

What is SQL ?
What is SQL?
SQL stands for Structured Query Language
SQL lets you access and manipulate databases
SQL became a standard of the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in 1986, and of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 1987

So we can also say SQL is a language designed entirely for accessing databases and is the most popular of them.<br> With SQL, we can create tables, change data, get back the data we're interested in.<br>
What Can SQL do?
SQL can execute queries against a database.<br>
SQL can retrieve data from a database.<br>
SQL can insert records in a database.<br>
SQL can update records in a database.<br>
SQL can delete records from a database.<br>
SQL can create new databases.<br>
SQL can create new tables in a database.<br>
SQL can create stored procedures in a database.<br>
SQL can create views in a database.<br>
SQL can set permissions on tables, procedures, and views.<br>
Using SQL in Your Web Site<br>
To build a web site that shows data from a database, you will need:

-- An RDBMS database program (i.e MS Access, SQL Server, MySQL)

To use a server-side scripting language, like PHP or ASP.<br>
To use SQL to get the data you want.<br>
To use HTML / CSS to style the page.<br>

RDBMS
RDBMS stands for Relational Database Management System.<br>

RDBMS is the basis for SQL, and for all modern database systems such as MS SQL Server, IBM DB2, Oracle, MySQL, and Microsoft Access.<br>

The data in RDBMS is stored in database objects called tables.<br> A table is a collection of related data entries and it consists of columns and rows.<br>

Every table is broken up into smaller entities called fields.<br> The fields in the Customers table consist of CustomerID, CustomerName, ContactName, Address, City, PostalCode and Country.<br> A field is a column in a table that is designed to maintain specific information about every record in the table.<br>

A record, also called a row, is each individual entry that exists in a table.<br> For example, there are 91 records in the above Customers table.<br> A record is a horizontal entity in a table.<br>

A column is a vertical entity in a table that contains all information associated with a specific field in a table.<br>

# CONCLUSION

I have learnt so much about SQL and I think so far the information I have tells me that it is easy to work with SQL and I want to start using it very soon before I forget it at all.
