---
Layout:

Title: "Daily Summary"

Date: "2022-02-24"

Categories:
---

# INTRODUCTION

Today I am going to write about using dBeaver with SQL.<br> In my previous blog post I have written about SQL.<br> So on this blog post I am going to write about using those together.<br> BUt first let me define what is DBeaver and describe it in depth.<br>

-- What is a DBeaver.<br>

- DBeaver is a SQL client software application and a database administration tool.<br> For relational databases it uses the JDBC application programming interface to interact with databases via a JDBC driver.<br> For other databases it uses proprietary database drivers.<br>
  -How do I start a DBeaver?

Connect to SQL Server with DBeaver
Launch DBeaver.<br>
-Launch the New Connection Wizard.<br>
-Enter Connection Settings.<br>
-Download Driver Files (if required) .<br>
-Success Dialog Box.<br>
-Continue with the Connection.<br>
-Network Settings.<br>
-Finish.<br>
--Features
DBeaver has many of the typical features you’d expect from a GUI based database management tool.<br> For example, there’s the Database Navigator that allows you to navigate through the list of databases, and expand them to navigate the database objects within each database.<br> There’s also the SQL Editor with syntax highlighting and autocomplete.<br>

Here’s a list of some of DBeaver’s main features:
Graphical User Interface (GUI).<br> Enables you to see a list of databases and their objects, and select options from menus by “pointing and clicking”.<br> This is in contrast to a command line tool, where you’d need to remember the exact command to display a list of databases or perform other tasks.<br>
Data Editing.<br> You can edit data from directly within the table (just like you might edit data within a spreadsheet).<br>
Database Analysis.<br> Create visual diagrams of database objects and whole schemas and export as required.<br> Also includes metadata management.<br>
SQL Editor.<br> Enables you to create adhoc SQL queries and run them against the database.<br> You can also load and save scripts as required.<br> Some of the more popular features of the SQL Editor include syntax highlighting and autocomplete.<br>
Database Specific Features.<br> DBeaver supports many of the features that are specific to certain DBMSs.<br> For example, DBeaver supports views DDL and stored procedures in SQL Server, enum/set datatypes in MySQL, XML, Cursor datatypes support in Oracle and DB2, etc
Themes/appearance.<br> DBeaver comes with some default themes.<br> You can switch between these within seconds.<br> You can also change colors at a very granular level (such as the color of any parameters when written in the SQL Editor).<br>

# CONCLUSION

To read more about a DBeaver and get a full tutorial on how to run,start, and use it visit -
link to documentation -https://database.guide/what-is-dbeaver/ .<br>
link to YouTube video tutorial -https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a146s9ncFQA
.<br>
